- [Instructor] Now that we know the limitations
of HTTP/1 protocol, let us see how HTTP/2 works.
We know by now that it is a binary protocol
and the data transmitted over it is in a binary format.
In order to understand the working mechanism of HTTP/2,
we need to know three key terms:
a stream, a message and a frame.
A stream is a bidirectional flow of data
between the client and the server.
It consists of a set of messages,
and each stream is uniquely identified by a stream ID.
The next term is a message.
A message is a sequence of frames that correspond
to your HTTP request or the response.
And then we have a frame.
A frame is the smallest unit of data
that contains very specific type of information.
It has a header and a body.
The frame header contains the stream ID to determine
which stream the frame belongs to.
The body, in turn, can contain the HTTP header
and the actual payload, which is the data.
So between the client and server,
over HTTP/2 protocol, streams flow back and forth,
consisting of your HTTP data and headers.
So essentially HTTP/2 breaks down all your data
into small chunks, called frames.
One or more frames constitute a message.
One or more messages constitute a stream.
These frames are interleaved, or they are mixed,
when they get transported over the HTTP/2 protocol,
and they will be reassembled at the other end
using the stream ID that is contained
inside the frame header.
These streams are fully multiplexed
over a single TCP connection
between the client and the server.
So how is HTTP/2 better?
Firstly, it supports complete, or full,
request and response multiplexing.
You can send many requests
from the client without having to block on anyone.
You can send multiple responses from the server
without any of them getting blocked.
And as we said, this is done using frames.
They are anyway mixed when they travel
and going to be reassembled at the other end
using the stream ID.
So the head-of-line blocking problem
that we talked about in HTTP/1 is completely solved.
Additionally, HTTP/2 supports data streaming capabilities.
So instead of a client sending a single request,
or the server emitting a single response,
you can have the client and server both
trying to emit a stream of messages amongst each other.
So bidirectional streaming capability
is possible with HTTP/2.
HTTP/2 also compresses your HTTP headers,
which means reduced overhead and increased performance.
So overall, HTTP/2 is a protocol which is faster,
more efficient,
it reduces latency, and increases the throughput.